# info-media-tools

An assortment of tools that help transform information between video, audio, and text form.  

## Extract audio
### [scripts/extract-audio/Extract-MP3-From-TS.ps1](scripts/extract-audio/Extract-MP3-From-TS.ps1)
A Powershell script that extracts audio as mp3 files from all video files (ts) in the current directory using ffmpeg.  

## Transcribe audio
### [scripts/transcribe-audio/Transcribe_Faster_Whisper.ipynb](scripts/transcribe-audio/Transcribe_Faster_Whisper.ipynb)
A Colab notebook that transcribes audio using WhisperAI. Optimized to use Google Colab's GPU instances.  

## Clean up transcriptions
### [scripts/transcribe-audio/Remove-Timestamps-From-Text.ps1](scripts/transcribe-audio/Remove-Timestamps-From-Text.ps1)
A Powershell script that removes timestamps in the txt files generated by Whisper (for all txt files in the current directory).  

### [scripts/transcribe-audio/Convert-VTT-Text.ps1](scripts/transcribe-audio/Convert-VTT-Text.ps1)
A Powershell script that removes timestamps from VTT subtitles and saves them as a txt file

## Add metadata to audio
### [scripts/add-metadata-audio/Create-AlbumMetadataConfig.ps1](scripts/add-metadata-audio/Create-AlbumMetadataConfig.ps1)
A Powershell script that generates an empty config CSV file for the user to fill album metadata.   

### [scripts/add-metadata-audio/Create-TracksMetadataConfig.ps1](scripts/add-metadata-audio/Create-TracksMetadataConfig.ps1)
A Powershell script that generates a config CSV file with metadata for all mp3 tracks in the current directory. Album metadata is pulled from the album metadata config file. The data will be edited by the user.  

### [scripts/add-metadata-audio/Apply-TracksMetadata.ps1](scripts/add-metadata-audio/Apply-TracksMetadata.ps1)
A Powershell script that applies track metadata from the config file to the mp3 files in the directory. 

## Organize images
### [scripts/organize-images/Create-Markdown-Images.ps1](scripts/organize-images/Create-Markdown-Images.ps1)
A Powershell script that creates a Markdown file listing emded code for all images in the current directory.  

### [scripts/organize-images/Rename-Images-Increment.ps1](scripts/organize-images/Rename-Images-Increment.ps1)
A Powershell script that renames all images in the current directory into sequential integers (like 1.png, 2.png), zero-padded if needed.  